Sinopsis:
María busca recuperar su fe en la misericordia de Dios, y en el proceso aprenderá a aceptar su nuevo don y a ver la belleza del mundo por un nuevo medio.
Comenzará en su pueblo natal, justo al presenciar la muerte de su padre. A lo largo del juego, se adentrará en lugares progresivamente más desconocidos para ella, a la par que coge más confianza con su vista, permitiendo que su cordura se drene más lento mientras tenga la venda quitada. Al final de cada capítulo, se enfrentará a una silueta, una memoria de aspecto indefinido, de su pasado cegado. La silueta le guiará a través de una serie de eventos que le llevarán a una revelación personal.
Al final del juego habrá un último paso hacia la iluminación en la que debe pasar por un <<camino de lamentos>> con la venda quitada todo el tiempo.

Overall arc: recover her faith in the God's grace, accept her new gift and learn to see the beauty in the world through another medium.
She will begin in her hometown, the place most familiar to her, where she has just witnessed the death of her father. Throughout the game, she will gradually move into more and more unknown territory, while simultaneously becoming more and more confident with her sight, allowing her sanity to drain slower while the blind is off. At the end of each chapter, she will face a silhouette, a shapeless memory from her blind past. The silhouette will guide her through a series of events leading to a great personal discovery.
At the end of the game there will be one last leap of faith, where she must advance through an "alley of regret" to reach enlightenment at the end.
 
Prelude: Don't peek
NPCs: M's father
Winter
This introduction begins with our blindfolded protagonist getting on a train. When she gets off, the player takes control and must get to her father's house, learning the basics of blindfolded navigation. 
---
In this scene, the player must walk straight ahead to the dying father’s house. This tract of the journey is made blindfolded. 
Stimuli along the path include noises of occasional people walking past, smells of cabbage fields and horses.
The two side streets that branch out from the square will be blocked off by market stalls. 
Once the player enters the house, we cut to a cinematic where M takes off blindfold and pop croaks.
 
Chapter 1: Child no more
NPCs: Town doctor, M's brother
Silhouette: M's father
Campfire: M's brother's house
Spring
After the death of her father, M decides to stay in the village for a while. Here, she reconnects with her brother and seeks advice from the town doctor, an old family friend. He suggests that she accept this new change as a blessing, because she has not lost her world of darkness, only gained a new one, and that she makes the most of her unique position to view the beauty of both.

The scene of the village in spring is a happy one: stimuli include birds singing and the smell of country flowers. M takes to the streets, still blindfolded. The player is given free roam of the village, and is introduced to the sanity bar, currently low from her time alone in her late father’s house. If talked to, most random townsfolk will respond with remarks about M’s isolation, her sudden return, the miracle of her regaining her sight, or whether she’s spoken to her brother.
M’s brother is in the house next to hers. If spoken with, he will trigger the following conversation:
M: “Iago, are you there?”
I: “María, well I never! I thought you might never leave that room alone! Are you hungry?” (Y/N)
Y-> all your spaghet are belong to us
I: “Did you find some secret enlightenment in the dark? Or have you finally taken the blind off again?”
M: “Not yet. It still feels wrong. All of it. You can’t understand. I ‘recovered’ just in time to see my father die. If that’s not a sign, nothing is.”
I: “But a sign of mercy! Your father was dying before you healed, through this miracle you were allowed to see him one last time before he left us!”
M: “But what a state to see him in! That was not the father I knew, delirious and weak, struggling to hold on to his last wisps of life.”
(Pause)
I: “He would have wanted you to see again.”
M: “Stop it. I don’t want to. I hate it.”
I: “You hate it because you haven’t tried it properly. I’m here to help. I don’t want to make you suffer.”
M: “Then stop asking me to see.”
I (exasperated): “Alright then. Ignore me. I know I can’t convince you to do anything. But please, talk to someone wiser about this. Talk to anyone about this, just don’t shut yourself off.”
M (bitter): “Sure.”
I: “I’m serious. You have friends here, people who haven’t really seen you in a long time. Go out and see who you find, it’ll take your mind off it. Something has to.”
M (sighs): “You’re right, I suppose. Is old Doctor Abel still around?”
I: “Yes actually, he lives down on the outskirts of town, by the church. I’m sure he’d love to see you again! He was always so nice to you when you were a girl.”
M: “He was. I think I’ll go talk to him. Oh, and Iago?
I: “Yes?”
M: “Thank you.”
 
Outside in the town are three main locations with side events:
In the northwest, by the forest, a lumberjack is working. He knows M by reputation mostly, but asks for her help. There is a disease affecting some of trees in the forest, and he has to cull the infected ones. However, an infected is hard to identify by sight, and the main symptom is a slight acrid smell in the leaves. With her fine sense of smell, M must find 4 infected trees (identifiable by the player as smell stimuli of a slightly different pattern from the rest of the trees). Once this is done, the worker will thank M, raising her sanity, and give her a small wooden rosary he carved. 

In the northeast is Doctor Abel’s house. If talked to, he will recommend that she see this as an opportunity, that from her unique perspective she can live in two worlds, the dark and the visual. He points out that this dark world has not been taken from her, as evidenced by her blindfold. But he does suggest that she try taking off the blind, if only for moments, and learn to see with her eyes all the beauty and happiness in the world.
This conversation unlocks the ability to remove the blindfold temporarily.

In the southeast, a woman is painting the landscape. When close, M can smell the paints. When the painter sees M, she will remark on the melancholic irony of her only visitor being unable to see her work. If the player has already spoken to Doctor Abel, they have the option to then remove the blindfold, seeing both the real landscape and the painted one, a somewhat saturated abstraction of reality. This will provide an increase both the sanity and faith levels. Cheered up by this strange turn, the painter will then ask M whether she could honestly critique her work. The player is given three options: flatter, positive critique or analytical critique.
Flattery will reward the player with a sketch from the artist.
A positive critique of the colour choices will lead the painter to mention that she was inspired to make the colours that way by a kaleidoscope she bought, which she will then give to the player.
An analytical critique will still be well received: M will point out that the black outlines on the hills are a little distracting from the main scenery. The painter will thank her for her honesty, and the player receives a sanity bonus.

If all three of these events are completed, a sermon will begin at the chapel. Going to the sermon will raise the player’s sanity to the level required to see the memory. 

The memory of this chapter is that of M’s father, encountered at the front door of his house. 
Chapter 2: Home
NPCs: M's husband, M's son
Silhouette: M's wedding
Campfire: M's house
/*M returns home to the city. Here she discusses her trip with her husband, declaring that she doesn't even recognize him by sight, and asks that he blind her then and there. Obviously, he refuses, and she leaves the house in a fit of tears. Outside, she will encounter several miscellaneous characters from her daily life, whom she can help and be helped by, to take her mind off things. During these adventures she will occasionally find the need to remove her blind, and other people will gladly point out the benefits to her doing so. Eventually she passes by the church, and has a memory of her wedding, pausing for a moment to think what a joy that would have been to see.*/

After arriving at the city through at night, M returns to her own house. There, her husband greets her, and asks about the trip. She mentions the strangeness of being back where she grew up and how the sight of it was like a disturbing perversion of her youth. He asks if she’s being dramatic, to which she replies that, at the very least, it is still physically painful for her to look at anything bright. He then suggests that they go out together at night sometime soon. She says that would be a great idea, but would prefer if they keep to the docks, where there are fewer streetlights. He agrees and tells her to wait for him there the following day, as he will likely be finishing work late.
The next day, she leaves the house at dusk, and wanders the area while she waits for her husband, talking to various other people there. 
In the docks are ----- side events:
On a boat that is moored, a group of old ladies is playing a card game. One of them is a friend of M’s and asks for her to come by and help. The player must listen to the plays made every round by the other gamblers, and every round will be given the option to alert M’s friend to a lie. The game is complete after 5 rounds. The jovial, friendly game will boost the faith and sanity scores, and, if the player got at least 3 rounds correct, M’s friend will gift her a gambling chip, which allows the player to interact with memories with 30% less sanity than the standard requirement.
On the pier, a nervous sailor will try to catch M’s attention. He explains that he lost the key to his padlock at sea, and can’t leave his boat to get a new one for fear of someone stealing it. He then gives M a handful of coins and asks her to go to the pawn shop and buy him a new padlock, saying she can keep the change. At the pawn shop in addition to the padlock are a selection of two or three other items that can be bought with the rest of the money, including an ear trumpet (increases the detection radius when the blind is on) and a box of incense  (sanity is not lost when the blind is off, but you can’t detect olfactory stimuli). Once the padlock is returned to the sailor, he thanks M, granting a small boost to faith and a moderate boost to sanity.
On a lamplit street, a lone busker plays his guitar in a corner. If talked to, he will state that the current-day society has no appreciation for the arts, that a musician like himself can play for all to hear and only barely make enough money to feed himself.
The player is given the options to ignore him, give him some money (if nothing was bought with the sailor’s change) or to say that the arts are still appreciated, one only has to find other artists.
The busker asks if she knows any other artists, prompting another choice: give the busker the painter’s sketch (requires painter’s sketch) (+faith, +sanity), tell him to search for the artistic heart within each person (+faith), or promise to find someone else within the city whom he can meet.
On the other side of the map is a bar, where a young man sings alone on a stage. Talking to him will reveal that he would like to have a musician accompany him. Returning to the busker, the player can tell him of the singer, and he will go to the bar to see (+ large amount of faith, + sanity).
If this is done, he can be revisited at the bar after the main memory of the level has been completed.
Once enough sanity has been gained, M’s husband can be found at the agreed location. Talking to him will trigger this level’s memory: the walk down the aisle at their wedding. M reminisces on what it would have been like to see that day.

Chapter 3: Letters
NPCs: M's brother, M's son, priest
Silhouette: A day in school? M's husband teaching her son?
Campfire: Church
/*M's brother arrives in the city, bearing news: After hearing of her recovery, her father left her a letter to read! Annoyed, M curses the mental state of her dying father, reminding her brother that she hasn't read since before she was blind. However, he refuses to read it to her, stating that now that she has the chance to learn again, to not do so would be cowardice. Furious but stubborn, she snatches the letter and seeks someone to teach her, someone who never knew her when she was blind. This leads her to the church, where an elderly priest, who is half blind himself, takes a liking to M, and begins to teach her.*/

M's brother arrives for a surprise visit to the house. He brings news: while resolving their father's will, they discovered that he wrote her a letter shortly after learning that she had regained her sight. The catch is that he specifically asked that she read it herself. Among the rest of the will, he leaves her several miscellaneous items as well as some money to pay for reading lessons. She considers her options, and heads out to the city centre to find a teacher. After thinking about it, M remarks that she is willing to try this, but that it will be difficult to find a teacher with enough patience. The player will receive a check for the bank. Talking to M's 6-year-old son will initiate a brief event where he tries to help her by teaching her some of what he's learning at school. This does not really help much with the reading, but provides a faith and sainty boost anyway.
The city has two paths that lead to the same result of finding a regular tutor.
First of all, M must go to the bank to get the reading money. Once this has been done, the options open up:
She can go to the church, where a young priest looking to prove his value will agree to teach her if she divides her money up among the poor. This will prompt a search for three beggars located around the city. Each time M gives one some money, the item in the inventory is replaced by another, identical except for the flavourtext. Once all the money has been given out, M can return to the church to receive her first lesson.
Alternatively, she can go to the hospital, where an old man with Alzheimers is having an angry row with his daughter, a friend of M's. The woman storms off, but notices M. She explains that it's horrible, seeing her father, who was once so strong and intelligent, descend into this state. She says that the doctors have recommended finding someone from outside the family to pass time with him, but they can't find anyone willing to put up with his temper, and he himself has refused the idea of someone helping him. The player has the option of offering him someone that he can help, by teaching her how to read. If this option is selected, the woman will introduce the two. Upon being asked for help, the old teacher insists on beggining immediately, and so the first lesson starts.

Also in the city is a casino. If M approaches the casino with the money in her inventory, the silhouette of her father will forbid her from entering to squander his money. If she removes her blindfold to continue inwards, she will lose all her money in a very brief event. Doing this makes the standard church ending impossible without completing another side event that rewards money. To ensure the player doesn't feel stuck, the silhouette will insinst that she's really messed up, but that he believes she can find someone who will teach her who won't want money. If the player returns to the priest after this, M will confess what happened. The priest, displeased but glad that she at least confessed her sin, will grant her another chance if she helps prepare a charity lunch that will be ocurring soon. This will prompt her to go to several shops to ask for anything they can spare for the unfortunate. Once three different shops have been visited, the priest agrees to begin her teachings.

Chapter 4: Enlightenment
NPCs: 
Skipping forward a couple of months, M now feels safe, if uncomfortable, in the visual world. At one of her reading lessons, the priest tells her of his daughter who died. M draws a parallel between this and her own situation with her father, whom the priest sometimes reminds her of. Remembering the letter her father left her, she will ask him to either read it to her or help her read it. 
Halfway through the letter, she becomes overwhelmed with grief and runs from the church, plunging her into her final vision, in which she must pass through all her most powerful memories, using everything she learned to reach enlightenment and hear/read her father's final words to her.
